SSH:
1) SSH stands for secure shell 
2) It is used to access other systems remotely. It operates via port 22.
3) Alternate tool for ssh is telnet
4) Important difference between telnet and ssh is that ssh is more secure than telnet. Traffic is encrypted when you use ssh.
5) Format:
	1) ssh username@ip 
		ip = ip address of remote computer
		username = username of remote computer
	2) ssh -l username ip
6) Once you login to remote computer, you start the remote computer's terminal session. To check, you can use "who" command.
7) Now you can use all the normal commands which are supported by the operating system of the remote computer.
8) But if you try to open some GUI window, it won't open. This is because we need to set the DISPLAY environment variable.
9) To set DISPLAY variable, type "export DISPLAY=:0". This means we are setting the current display for GUI stuff.
10) Now we can open GUI windows.
11) We cannot use ssh to transfer files. For that we use "sftp" utility.
SFTP:
1) SFTP stands for secure file transfer protocol. It also operates on port 22.
2) This is used to transfer files from local machine to remote machine and vice versa.
3) Format:
	sftp username@ip
4) Here, not all commands work. Commands that work using sftp are: 
	1) chown
	2) chmod
	3) mkdir
	4) rm 
	5) cd
	6) ls
	7) pwd
5) When you want to execute a command on local machine, use "!" or "l (small letter L)" before the command. Eg: lpwd(To get working directory of local 		machine) . Be careful, Not all commands work using "!" and "l". You need to figure it out which work with which symbol.
6) To download, i.e to get any file from remote machine to local machine, use "get" command.
	e.g: get foo
	To download multiple files use "mget" instead of "get" command.
	e.g: mget foo1 foo2 foo3
	e.g: mget -r Directory
	NOTE: File will download in your current working directory of local machine.
7) To upload, i.e to put any file from local machine into remote machine, use "put" command.
	e.g: put foo
	To upload multiple files use "mput" instead of "put".
	e.g: mput *.txt   (Upload all '.txt' files)
	Uploading a directory is quite tricky
	NOTE: File will be uploaded in your working directory of remote machine
	FAQ: How can I block some ip permanently.
	Ans: Use firewall to do this. A common firewall tool used is iptables.
		To block some ip, use the command "sudo iptables -A INPUT -s ip_address_to_be_blocked -j REJECT"
		
